# Senior-Design-Project-F-SAE-Kill-Switch-mount-stress-analysis-
n my senior design project, I had accomplished individual and teamwork tasks which are highlighted in the followings : 1) Designed the car's firewall. 2) Performed stress analysis to check the structural integrity for existing parts. 3) Was a leader of the aerodynamics sub-team, and did the most work of developing new aero package
I was assigned to check the check the structural integrity of the kill switch mount that is already installed into the Formula car. After a careful examination of the critical stress points, it was found that the fillet welded patch is unsatisfactory according to the American Welding Society design factor code (0.560). An improvement suggested which is increasing the throat area by adding one more weld bead at same leg size. The improvement paid off as the obtained design factor of safety was above 1.  Another region of concern was the two fasteners holding the main piece in the bracket (Piece 1). Different failures mode was checked, and the safe shear load was obtained for each of which. The leading failure mode was due to edge shearing as it resulted in having the minimum safe load out of the different modes. An enhancement suggested which was increasing the distance from the bolt center to the bottom edge to be double the diameter value of the bolt. The later would increase the tear Area and, thus, increasing the margin of safe shear load. Nevertheless, this improvement will be implemented because minimum safe load found was 1.49 kN which is still a comfortable load margin.

